cc-01-being-present.md, before:

Being Present
-------------

I used to be engaged in life, like a soldier engaged in battle. The only thing that mattered to me was achieving goals.

At first I didn't bother to ask where does the goals come from, so often they were somehow imposed on me. For example I never really wanted to be a lawyer. Nevertheless at my final year at the university I was so fiercely focused on becoming an attorney trainee that I alienated most of my friends and devastated many relations.

I did succeed, but within a year I was so bitter that everything seemed like a disappointment. I was in a bad relationship, without many friends nor money, chasing somebody else's dreams.

Some time after one of my good friends died, I decided that I should chase my own dreams instead. I always liked to create things and enjoyed computers, so I realized I should be a software developer. Now I focused on making really good software.

Having no formal education nor professional experience I was learning a lot in a fast manner. one of the things I learned is that when you run your own business, it is only part of the equation to have good product or service. You also have to market it and manage your resources.

So, after a year or so I wasn't in any relationship at all, with fewer friends than before and not only without money, but with significant debts.

I really needed a job. Any job. So unwillingly I dusted off my lawyer's degree only to end up in a dreadful place called CCCP - that is Court of Consumers and Competition Protection. Precisely the Section of Prohibited Business to Consumer Contract Terms. By the time I've arrived there it was already informally called "the Microsection". That's because nobody wanted to work there, and only three misfortunate souls did: one judge, his assistant (that's your humble narrator) and a secretary.

If my life seemed like a disaster to me then I shall say I was a good fit for the job. Hundreds of new cases were filed each month and obviously we couldn't manage to process them. Next year another three people were assigned to our team number of cases doubled. The same next year, reaching about 35 new cases each working day.

All those cases were very similar, but each required it's own reasoning. After spending months analyzing dozen of them a day, we realized that there were 12 aspects in each, and each aspect had from 2 to 6 variations. That gave roughly 16 777 216 possible reasonings.

That's a little too much for a person (even a lawyer) to memorize. But it's quite ok for computer. We had computers, but there was no suitable software and no developers in the court.

Another disaster? Or maybe an opportunity? It took me surprisingly long to realize that. First I had to start being present in my life instead of my dreams. At last, secretly and against conventional wisdom of the bureaucracy I created a very simple app, that provided with 12 variables would suggest a reasoning for most of the cases.

I was lucky. The scale of the disaster made every decision maker very open minded and they gave me a chance to field test this prototype. It was a success.

Gradually my coworkers and even people from other departments started to ask me to tweak some parts of the app, enhance it with new functionality or to devise new solutions. Soon I was so involved in software development, that the president of the court agreed that it should be my only job.

To my knowledge I was the only person at the court passionate about his or her job. The problems were fascinating. I had complete freedom in devising the solutions. My work was valued. Within next year we have managed to process 35 cases - old and new ones.

And when I decided that it's time to seek new experience I had no problem finding next job as a software developer (very important).

I believe the most important thing that I have learned diring this years is to think about my goals every day, but only for a while. Rest of the day I should focus on where I am.

Commit message:

Remove some words from cc-01

cc-01-being-present.md, after:

Being Present
-------------

I used to be engaged in life, like a soldier engaged in battle. The only thing that mattered to me was achieving goals.

At first I didn't bother to ask where does the goals come from, so often they were somehow imposed on me. For example I never really wanted to be a lawyer. Nevertheless at my final year at the university I was so fiercely focused on becoming an attorney trainee that I devastated many good relations.

I made it but within a year I was so bitter that everything seemed like a disappointment. I was in a bad relationship, without many friends nor money, chasing somebody else's dreams.

When a friend died I decided that life is short and uncertain and I should be chasing my own dreams. I always liked to create things and enjoyed computers, so why not become a software developer? Now I focused on making really good software.

Having no formal education nor professional experience I was learning a lot in a fast manner. One of the things I learned is that when you run your own business, it is only part of the equation to have good product or service. You also have to market it and manage your resources.

After a year or so I wasn't in any relationship at all, with fewer friends than before and not only without money, but with significant debts.

I really needed a job. Any job. So resentfully I dusted off my lawyer's degree only to end up in a dreadful place called CCCP - that is Court of Consumers and Competition Protection. Precisely the Section of Prohibited Business to Consumer Contract Terms. By the time I've arrived there it was already informally called "the Microsection". That's because nobody wanted to work there, and only three  people did: one judge, his assistant (that's your humble narrator) and a secretary.

If my life seemed like a disaster to me then I shall say I was a good fit for the job. Hundreds of new cases were filed each month and obviously we couldn't manage to process them. Next year another three people were assigned to our team but the number of cases doubled. The same next year, reaching about 35 new cases each working day.

All those cases were very similar, but each required it's own reasoning. After spending months analyzing dozen of them a day, we realized that there were 12 aspects in each, and each aspect had from 2 to 6 variations. That gave roughly 16 777 216 possible reasonings.

That's a little too much for a person (even a lawyer) to memorize. But it's quite ok for computer. We had computers, but there was no suitable software and no developers in the court.

Another disaster? Or maybe an opportunity? It took me surprisingly long to realize that. First I had to start being present in my life instead of my dreams. But at last secretly and against conventional wisdom of the bureaucracy I created a very simple app, that provided with 12 variables would suggest a reasoning for most of the cases.

I was lucky. The scale of the disaster made every decision maker very open minded and they gave me a chance to field test this prototype. It was a success.

Gradually my coworkers and even people from other departments started to ask me to tweak some parts of the app, enhance it with new functionality or to devise new solutions. Soon I was so involved in software development, that the president of the court agreed that it should be my only job.

Suddenly I became passionate about my job. The problems were fascinating and I had complete freedom in devising the solutions. My work was valued. Within next year our team managed to process 35 cases - old and new ones. And when I decided that I need new experience I had no problem finding next job as a software developer.

I believe the most important thing that I have learned during this years is to think about my goals every day, but only for a while. Rest of the time I should focus on where I am.
